## Introduction

The Azure AI Agent Service Code Interpreter enables the LLM to safely execute Python code for tasks such as creating charts or performing complex data analyses based on user queries. It makes use of natural language processing (NLP), sales data from an SQLite database, and user prompts to automate code generation. The LLM-generated Python code executes within a secure sandbox environment, running on a restricted subset of Python to ensure safe and controlled execution.

## Lab Exercise - Python

In this lab, you'll enable the Code Interpreter to execute Python code generated by the LLM.

=== "Python"

    1. Open the `main.py`.

    2. Define a new instructions file for our agent and add the code intepreter in the agent's toolset. **Uncomment** the following lines by removing the **"# "** characters.

        ```python
        # INSTRUCTIONS_FILE = "instructions/code_interpreter.txt

        # code_interpreter = CodeInterpreterTool()
        # toolset.add(code_interpreter)
        ```

        !!! warning
            The lines to be uncommented are not adjacent. When removing the # character, ensure you also delete the space that follows it.

    3. Review the code in the `main.py` file.

        After uncommenting, your code should look like this:

        ```python
        INSTRUCTIONS_FILE = "instructions/function_calling.txt"
        INSTRUCTIONS_FILE = "instructions/file_search.txt"
        INSTRUCTIONS_FILE = "instructions/code_interpreter.txt"
        # INSTRUCTIONS_FILE = "instructions/code_interpreter_multilingual.txt"
        # INSTRUCTIONS_FILE = "instructions/bing_grounding.txt"


        async def add_agent_tools() -> None:
            """Add tools for the agent."""
            font_file_info = None

            # Add the functions tool
            toolset.add(functions)

            # Add the tents data sheet to a new vector data store
            vector_store = await utilities.create_vector_store(
                project_client,
                files=[TENTS_DATA_SHEET_FILE],
                vector_store_name="Contoso Product Information Vector Store",
            )
            file_search_tool = FileSearchTool(vector_store_ids=[vector_store.id])
            toolset.add(file_search_tool)

            # Add the code interpreter tool
            code_interpreter = CodeInterpreterTool()
            toolset.add(code_interpreter)

            # Add multilingual support to the code interpreter
            # font_file_info = await utilities.upload_file(project_client, utilities.shared_files_path / FONTS_ZIP)
            # code_interpreter.add_file(file_id=font_file_info.id)

            # Add the Bing grounding tool
            # bing_connection = await project_client.connections.get(connection_name=BING_CONNECTION_NAME)
            # bing_grounding = BingGroundingTool(connection_id=bing_connection.id)
            # toolset.add(bing_grounding)

            return font_file_info
        ```

=== "C#"

    1. Open the `Program.cs` file.

    2. **Update** the creation of the lab to use the `Lab2` class.

        ``` csharp
        await using Lab lab = new Lab3(projectClient, apiDeploymentName);
        ```

    3. Review the `Lab2.cs` class to see how the Code Interpreter is added to the Tools list.

## Review the Instructions

1. Open the **shared/instructions/code_interpreter.txt** file. This file replaces the instructions used in the previous lab.
2. The **Tools** section now includes a “Visualization and Code Interpretation” capability, allowing the agent to:

      - Use the code interpreter to run LLM generated Python code. (e.g., for downloading or visualizing data).
      - Create charts and graphs, using the user’s language for labels, titles, and other chart text.
      - Export visualizations as PNG files and data as CSV files.

## Run the Agent App

1. Press <kbd>F5</kbd> to run the app.
2. In the terminal, the app will start, and the agent app will prompt you to  **Enter your query**.

### Start a Conversation with the Agent

Try these questions:

1. **Show sales by region as a pie chart**

    Once the task is complete, the pie chart image will be saved in the **shared/files** subfolder. Note that this subfolder is created the first time this task is run, and is never checked into source control.

    Open the folder in VS Code and click on the image file to view it. (Tip: in Codespaces, you can Control-Click the link that the agent outputs in its response to view the file.)

    !!! info
        This might feel like magic, so what’s happening behind the scenes to make it all work?

        Azure AI Agent Service orchestrates the following steps:

        1. The LLM generates a SQL query to answer the user's question. In this example, the query is:

            **SELECT region, SUM(revenue) AS total_revenue FROM sales_data GROUP BY region;**

        2. The LLM asks the agent app to call the **async_fetch_sales_data_using_sqlite_query** function. The SQL command is executed, and the resulting data is returned to the LLM.
        3. Using the returned data, the LLM writes Python code to create a Pie Chart.
        4. Finally, the Code Interpreter executes the Python code to generate the chart.

2. **Download the sales by region data**

    Once the task is complete, check the **shared/files** folder to see the downloaded file.

    !!! info
        By default, the instructions specify that data downloads in CSV format. You can request other formats, such as JSON or Excel, by including the desired format in your query (e.g., ‘Download as JSON’).

3. **Download as JSON**

    Once the task is complete, check the **shared/files** folder to see the downloaded file.

    !!! info
        The agent inferred from the conversation which file you wanted to create, even though you
        didn't explicitly specify it.

4. Continue asking questions about Contoso sales data to see the Code Interpreter in action.

## Debugging the Code Interpreter

You can’t directly debug the Code Interpreter, but you can gain insight into its behavior by asking the agent to display the code it generates. This helps you understand how it interprets your instructions and can guide you in refining them.

From the terminal, type:

1. **show code** to see the code generated by the Code Interpreter for the last operation.

## Stop the Agent App

When you're done, type **exit** to clean up the agent resources and stop the app.
